---
title: Persisting records in XML format
TOCTitle: Persisting records in XML format
ms:assetid: 8071e244-60c7-759c-094c-152add5d72e4
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/JJ249545(v=office.15)
ms:contentKeyID: 48545924
ms.date: 09/18/2015
mtps_version: v=office.15
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Persisting records in XML format

**Applies to**: Access 2013, Office 2013

Like ADTG format, **Recordset** persistence in XML format is implemented with the Microsoft OLE DB Persistence Provider. This provider generates a forward-only, read-only rowset from a saved XML file or stream that contains the schema information generated by ADO. Similarly, it can take an ADO **Recordset**, generate XML, and save it to a file or any object that implements the COM **IStream** interface. (In fact, a file is just another example of an object that supports **IStream**.) For versions 2.5 and later, ADO relies on the Microsoft XML Parser (MSXML) to load the XML into the **Recordset**; therefore msxml.dll is required. For version 2.5, MSXML shipped with Internet Explorer 5. For version 2.6, MSXML shipped with SQL Server 2000.

> [!NOTE]
> Some limitations apply when saving hierarchical **Recordsets** (data shapes) to XML format. You cannot save to XML if the hierarchical **Recordset** contains pending updates, and you cannot save a parameterized hierarchical **Recordset**. For more information, see [Hierarchical Recordsets in XML](hierarchical-recordsets-in-xml.md).


The easiest way to persist data into XML and load it back again through ADO is with the **Save** and **Open** methods, respectively. The following ADO code example demonstrates saving the data in the Titles table to a file named titles.sav.

```vb 
 
Dim rs as new Recordset 
Dim rs2 as new Recordset 
Dim c as new Connection 
Dim s as new Stream 
 
' Query the Titles table. 
c.Open "provider='sqloledb';data source='mydb';initial catalog='pubs';Integrated Security='SSPI'" 
rs.cursorlocation = adUseClient 
rs.Open "select * from titles", c, adOpenStatic 
 
' Save to the file in the XML format. Note that if you don't specify 
' adPersistXML, a binary format (ADTG) will be used by default. 
rs.Save "titles.sav", adPersistXML 
 
' Save the Recordset into the ADO Stream object. 
rs.save s, adPersistXML 
rs.Close 
c.Close 
 
set rs = nothing 
 
Reopen the file. 
rs.Open "titles.sav",,,,adCmdFile 
'Open the Stream back into a Recordset. 
rs2.open s 
```

ADO always persists the entire **Recordset** object. If you wish to only persist a subset of rows of the **Recordset** object, use the **Filter** method to narrow down the rows or change your selection clause. However, you must open a **Recordset** object with a client-side cursor (**CursorLocation** = **adUseClient**) to use the **Filter** method for saving a subset of rows. For example, to retrieve titles that start with the letter "b," you can apply a filter to an open **Recordset** object:

```vb 
 
rs.Filter "title_id like 'B*'" 
rs.Save "btitles.sav", adPersistXML 
```

ADO always uses the Client Cursor Engine rowset to produce a scrollable, bookmarkable **Recordset** object on top of the forward-only data generated by the Persistence Provider.

This section includes the following topics:

- [XML Persistence Format](xml-persistence-format.md)

- [Namespaces](namespaces.md)

- [Schema Section](schema-section.md)

- [Data Section](data-section.md)

- [Hierarchical Recordsets in XML](hierarchical-recordsets-in-xml.md)

- [Recordset Dynamic Properties in XML](recordset-dynamic-properties-in-xml.md)

- [XSLT Transformations](xslt-transformations.md)

- [Saving to the XML DOM Object](saving-to-the-xml-dom-object.md)

- [XML Security Considerations](xml-security-considerations.md)

- [XML Recordset Persistence Scenario Topics](xml-recordset-persistence-scenario.md)
