---
title: Reshape Name Property--Dynamic (ADO)
TOCTitle: Reshape Name Property--Dynamic (ADO)
ms:assetid: 59ef99c8-da40-5cf6-b987-d47ea1433f45
ms:mtpsurl: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/JJ249307(v=office.15)
ms:contentKeyID: 48545030
ms.date: 09/18/2015
mtps_version: v=office.15
---

# Reshape Name Property--Dynamic (ADO)


**Applies to**: Access 2013 | Office 2013

Specifies a name for the [Recordset](recordset-object-ado.md) object.

## Return Values

Returns a **String** value that is the name of the **Recordset**.

## Remarks

Names persist for the duration of the connection or until the **Recordset** is closed.

The **Reshape Name** property is primarily intended for use with the re-shaping feature of the [Microsoft Data Shaping Service for OLE DB](microsoft-data-shaping-service-for-ole-db-ado-service-provider.md) service provider. Names must be unique in order to participate in re-shaping.

This property is read-only, but can be set indirectly when a Recordset is created. For example, if a clause of a SHAPE command creates a Recordset and gives it an alias name with the "AS" keyword, then the alias is assigned to the Reshape Name property. If no alias is declared then the reshape name property is assigned a unique name generated by the data shaping service. If the alias name is the same as the name of an existing **Recordset**, neither **Recordset** be reshaped until one of them is released. The default behavior can be changed by setting the "Unique Reshape Names" (See "Microsoft Data shaping service for OLE DB") property on the ADO connection to TRUE. This give the data shaping service permission to change user assigend names if necessary to insure uniqueness.

Use the **Reshape Name** property when you want to refer to a **Recordset** in a SHAPE command, or when you don't know its name because it was generated by Data Shaping Service. In that case, you could generate a SHAPE command by concatenating the command around the string returned by the **Reshape Name** property.

**Reshape Name** is a dynamic property appended to the **Recordset** object's [Properties](properties-collection-ado.md) collection when the [CursorLocation](cursorlocation-property-ado.md) property is set to **adUseClient**.

