---
title: "Handling MAPI Property Errors"
manager: soliver
ms.date: 11/16/2014
ms.audience: Developer
localization_priority: Normal
api_type:
- COM
ms.assetid: 23d68d8b-b0b6-4c32-8404-6acd23802db0
description: "Last modified: July 23, 2011"
 
 
---

# Handling MAPI Property Errors

  
  
**Applies to**: Outlook 
  
Instead of complete failure or success, the following **IMAPIProp** methods report partial success: 
  
[GetProps](imapiprop-getprops.md)
  
[SetProps](imapiprop-setprops.md)
  
[DeleteProps](imapiprop-deleteprops.md)
  
[CopyTo](imapiprop-copyto.md)
  
[CopyProps](imapiprop-copyprops.md)
  
 **GetProps** reports partial success when it can retrieve at least one of the requested properties for an object. **GetProps** indicates partial success by returning the warning MAPI_W_ERRORS_RETURNED and placing information about the unavailable properties in the property value array pointed to by the **lppPropArray** parameter. An unavailable property's entry in this array contains PT_ERROR for the property type in the **ulPropTag** member and MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND or another appropriate error value for the **Value** member. For example, if a client calls a folder's **GetProps** method to retrieve three properties and the third is unavailable, the message store provider places PT_ERROR in the third property type in the property value array and MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND in the third property value. 
  
The other **IMAPIProp** methods report partial success differently. These methods report partial success by returning S_OK and placing error information in an [SPropProblemArray](spropproblemarray.md) structure. Unlike the property value array in **GetProps** that contains data regardless of whether the method succeeded or failed, the property problem array in these methods exists only if there are errors and only if the caller has registered interest in learning about the errors. Callers must specify a valid **SPropProblemArray** pointer to register for error information. 
  
When an error value is returned from **SetProps**, **DeleteProps**, **CopyTo**, or **CopyProps**, this indicates failure instead of partial success. The property problem array, if available, is not valid. Clients should not try to access data held in the structure nor should they try to free the structure itself. The appropriate response is to call [IMAPIProp::GetLastError](imapiprop-getlasterror.md). 
  
 **GetLastError** is similar to the function of the same name provided in the Windows SDK. Both provide more detailed information about an error than is available with the return value. They both return information about the previous error that has occurred. The difference is that the Win32 **GetLastError** function reports on an error generated by the calling thread and the **IMAPIProp::GetLastError** method reports on an error generated by the current object. That is, if a client calls **DeleteProps** on a message and MAPI_E_NO_ACCESS is returned to indicate that the message is read-only, **GetLastError** returns data provided by the message. 
  
## See also



[MAPI Property Overview](mapi-property-overview.md)

